# Object-Detection-and-Image-Classification-on-Traffic-road-signs-using-Deep-Learning

### Introduction
In recent years, machine learning models have been increasingly used to address large-scale applications in several industries including transportation, security, 
healthcare, marketing, and banking. The type of machine learning models adopted vary by the use case as well as the industry in which they are used. Artificial intelligence through machine learning algorithms is being viewed as the most efficient way to address the complex problems of an ever more technologically driven world. With the advent of the driverless cars and the widespread everyday use of navigation systems all over the world, the importance and accuracy of detecting road traffic signs has achieved paramount importance in the field of perception and imaging. Automation has offered promised returns of improvements in safety, productivity and reduced costs. Many industry leaders are specifically working on the application of autonomous technology in transportation to 
produce “driverless” or fully autonomous vehicles. A key technology that has the potential to drive the future development of these vehicles is deep learning. Self-driving cars represent a high-stakes test of the powers of machine learning, as well as a test case for social learning in technology governance 

### Problem statement
Over the past 70 years, the percentage of urban population in the world has increased from around 30% in 1970 to 56% in 2020, and this number is projected to further increase to 68% by 2050 [4]. This growing urbanization across the globe presents unique challenges to the transportation industry leading to the development of autonomous driving cars. Machine learning solutions pave the way for the use of advanced technologies in self-driving cars and can not only enable safe and efficient navigation of driverless cars but also aid the growth of the automobile industry to contribute to the global economy. One of the most important problems in the 
use of driverless cars is the recognition of traffic signs and accurate vehicle navigation based on the detected road sign. To address this problem, we decided to apply deep learning algorithms to an existing German traffic sign dataset. The dataset, our analysis, and findings using different neural network models through the latest packages in Python programming language have been discussed in the paper attached to 
